# 1
1. os develop
    * print
        error forget save registers in print functions
        the real error code is 0x0c : unsupported track or invalid media
        always focus on the error code of a function call
    * asm
    ; enter
    push ebp
    mov ebp, esp

    ; leave
    mov esp, ebp
    pop ebp

# 2
1. os develop
  * screen 
    framebuffer at address 0xB8000 is just an array of 16-bit words, each 16-bit value representing the display of one character.
    (80 * y + x) * 2

    15-12 11-8  7-0
     BG    FG   CHAR
     0:black,1:blue, 2:green, 3:cyan, 4:red, 5:magenta, 6:brown, 7:light grey, 8:dark grey,
     9:light blue, 10:light green, 11:light cyan, 12:light red, 13:light magneta, 14: light brown, 15: white. 

    The VGA controller also has some ports on the main I/O bus:
      * control register at 0x3D4
      * data    register at 0x3D5
      rdtsc : read timestamp conter

   * asm 
     [at&t intel](http://www.lxhp.in-berlin.de/lhpas86.html)
     [GAS](http://asm.sourceforge.net/howto/gas.html)
     gcc.pdf 
     ibm https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/l-ia/
        ```
        asm [volatile] ( AssemblerTemplate
                        : OutputOperands
                        [ : InputOperands
                        [ : Clobbers ] ])

        asm [volatile] goto ( AssemblerTemplate
                            :
                            : InputOperands
                            : Clobbers
                            : GotoLabels)
        extended asm statements must be inside a function, Only basic asm may be outside functions
        The asm keyword is a GNU extension. When writing code that can be compiled with ‘-ansi’ and the various ‘-std’ options, use __asm__ instead of asm

        Simple Constraints:
        * ‘g’ Any register, memory or immediate integer operand is allowed, except for registers that are not general registers.
        * ‘r’ A register operand is allowed provided that it is in a general register.
            a	%eax
            b 	%ebx
            c 	%ecx
            d 	%edx
            S	%esi
            D	%edi
        * ‘m’ A memory operand is allowed, with any kind of address that the machine supports in general.
        * ‘o’ A memory operand is allowed, but only if the address is offsettable. 

        Constraint Modifier Characters:
            When the compiler fixes up the operands to satisfy the constraints, it needs to
            know which operands are read by the instruction and which are written by it.
            1.‘=’ identifies an operand which is only written; 
            2. ‘+’ identifies an operand that is both read and written; 
            3. all other operands are assumed to only be read.
        * '=' Means that this operand is written to by this instruction: the previous value is discarded and replaced by new data.
        * '+' Means that this operand is both read and written by the instruction.
        * '&' Means (in a particular alternative) that this operand is an earlyclobber operand, which is written before the instruction 
            is finished using the input operands.Therefore, this operand may not lie in a register that is read by the instruction or 
            as part of any memory address.
        * '%' Declares the instruction to be commutative for this operand and the following operand. This means that the compiler
            may interchange the two operands if that is the cheapest way to make all operands fit the constraints. ‘%’ applies to
            all alternatives and must appear as the first character in the constraint. Only read-only operands can use ‘%’.

    * exceptions and interrupts 
      The difference between interrupts and exceptions is that interrupts are used to
      handle asynchronous events external to the processor, but exceptions handle
      conditions detected by the processor itself in the course of executing
      instructions.
      1. interrupts
        * Maskable interrupts, which are signalled via the INTR pin.
        * Nonmaskable interrupts, which are signalled via the NMI (Non-Maskable Interrupt) pin.
      2. exceptions
        * Processor detected. These are further classified as 
          1. faults: Faults are either detected before the instruction begins to execute, or during execution of the instruction.
                      If detected during the instruction, the fault is reported with the machine restored to a state that permits the
                      instruction to be restarted.
          2. traps: A trap is an exception that is reported at the instruction boundary immediately after the instruction 
                    in which the exception was detected. 
          3. aborts: An abort is an exception that permits neither precise location of the instruction causing the exception nor restart of the program
                      that caused the exception. Aborts are used to report severe errors, such as hardware errors and inconsistent or 
                      illegal values in system tables.
        * Programmed. The instructions INTO, INT 3, INT n, and BOUND can trigger exceptions.
          These instructions are often called "software interrupts", but the processor handles them as exceptions.

  * Find the next item in this line after or under the
			cursor and jump to its match. |inclusive| motion.
			Items can be:
			([{}])		

# 3
1. os develop
  * screen print [vga](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs140/projects/pintos/specs/freevga/home.htm)
    * bochs
      dd if=/dev/zero of=floppy.img bs=512 count=4
      dd if=os.img of=floppy.img 


  * idt

2. exploits
  * nmap

  * metasploit


 
    
